Current design of Frisbee Proxy.

Current Design:

  Server:
    Main Data Structures
      1) Work queue
    Two Threads
      1) Receives requests and enqueues them
      2) Dequeues requests, read data from disk and
           sends them
  
  Client:
    Main Data Structures
      2) Cache for compressed chunks
      3) Disk IO Queue
    Three Threads
      3) Receives chunks and requests new ones
      4) Decompression complete chunks and enqueues them to be written
      5) Dequeues disk requests and writes decompressed chunks to disk

  
Client-Server:

PHASE 1)

This phase will still use multicast so I can focus on being both
a client and a server and not changing the underlying network code.

The behavior of parts of the proxy may change depending on if the "-H"
for "Use Hints" command line flag is given.  When this flag is sent
the proxy will send hints to the clients as to what is currently in the
cache but about to expire.  The client can in turn ask the server to
hold hold onto the data until the client has a chance to request it.

4 Main Data Structures, combine the server and client ones, and add
one additional.

The Two Queues (1 and 3) are unmodified.

The cache (2) will behave differently: Full chunks will not be removed
from the cache after being committed from disk as they may still be
needed by clients.

Each cached chunk will be annotated with several additional fields:
  Hold: A counter that, if greater than zero means the chunk is
     still needed for one reason or another
  Needed Self: If the chunk is still needed by the client.  A chunk is still
     needed unless the chunk had either been committed to disk or is
     decompressed and waiting to be committed.
  Pending: Number of pending requests for this chunk (ie requests
     that are in the work queue)
  Reserved: If the chunk is reserved for expected data
  Stamp: Timestamp of when the last block was received
This information will be used to determine which chunk to remove from
the cache when it is full.

The "hold" field is used to determine if a block is available or not.
It is non-zero when "needed self" or "pending" is set, but it can also
be non-zero when other clients need if the "Use Hints" flag is set.

The "reserved" field is used to avoid sending requests that the proxy
has no room for.  It is set when the a request is sent to the boss
server on behave of other clients and cleared when that data is send
to the clients.  Note that a "reserved" chunk is still considered
available if there are no non-reserved chunk available in the cache.

Also add a 4th data structure the "Needed for Others list" which is a
list of blocks needed by other clients.  This is implemented as a
linked list of blockmaps.

5-6 threads, combine the server and client ones, and add one
additional one when the "Use Hints" flag is set.

Thread 1 is modified as follows:

  When it receives a request it will check if the chunk is in the cache
  and if so modify its state appropriately.

  This thread will also handle responses to the "in cache" message
  when the "use hints" flags is set.  See the "Use Hints Behavior"
  section below for more details.

Thread 2 modified as follows:

  Dequeues requests and see what part of the data is in the cache.

  Send what is in the cache and remove those blocks from the request.

  If there are any remaining blocks in the request than add those to 
  the "needed for others list".  And push the request back onto the
  end of he queue

  Update the cache data appropriately.

Thread 3 is modified as follows:

  1)
  Since other clients may need blocks that it itself does not need it
  will NOT ignore incoming blocks based on this.

  When it receives a block it will check to see if it the associated chunk
  is in the cache. If so it will simply store the block in the cache.

  If not than it will see if it can add the chunk to the cache.  If 
  the cache is not full than it will simply add the chunk.

  If the cache is full (the common case) than it will see if there are
  any chunks in which are not reserved and are available for reuse (ie
  "hold" field is non-zero).  If it finds any it will then chose the
  one with the earliest timestamp.  If it doesn't find any it will
  than consider chunks which are available for reuse regardless of it
  they are reserved or not.

  When adding a new chunk it will check the work queue for any
  pending requests on this chunk and if so update the count.

  If it was unable to cache the incoming block it will simply ignore
  it.

  2)
  It will send out requests for blocks for other clients at the same
  time it requests.  That is when it doesn't receive any packets for a
  while.

  It will first send out requests for any incomplete chunks needed by
  itself as that is always profitable [a]

  It will then send out any requests in the "Needed for Others list".
  Before sending a request it will remove any blocks that are now in
  the cache or have just been sent by (a).  It will than attempt to
  reserve space for the incoming chunk.  When the chunk is already in
  the cache this will simply involving setting the "reserve" flag.
  When a chunk is not in the cache, however it will attempt to
  allocate space for it by looking for a free block that is not
  already reserved.  If it can not reserve space for the data it
  won't send the request.  Once space is reserved it will than attempt
  to send the request.  If the request was send it will remove those
  blocks from the list also.  Any unsent blocks will remain in the
  list for the next round. [b]
  
  Finally it will only send out requests for new chunks needed by
  itself if the "Needed for Others list" is empty.  The idea here is
  that when acting as a proxy the clients will request all the needed
  chunks eventually.
  
Thread 4 is unmodified.

Thread 5 is modified so that instead of removing the chunk once
uncompressed it will simply flag it as being committed.

Thread 6 will, every second, send cache hints to the clients when the
"Use Hints" flag is sent.

NOTES ON RESERVED CHUNKS:

A reserved chunk is not necessary an allocated chunk.  A chunk in
considered allocated if it has a least one block in it.  The time
stamp of an newly reserved chunk in the time in which it was created.
Likewise the "hold", "needed self" and "pending" fields of a newly
reserved chunk is always zero.

A reserved block will become allocated once the first block of data
comes in.  The timestamp will be updated as usual and the "hold",
"needed self" and "pending" fields will then be updated to the correct
values.

USE HINTS BEHAVIOR:

When this flag is sent the proxy will send hints to the clients as to
what is currently in the cache but about to expire.  The client can in
turn ask the server to hold hold onto the data until the client has a
chance to request it.

The "hold" field in the cache header is key to this behavior.  When a
block is first allocated it is set to "3".  Every time a chunk is sent
to a client as part of the hint the hold field is decremented, however
if the client responds that it needs this chunk the "hold" field is
reset to the initial value of "3".  In this manner a client has two
chances to respond to the hint before the chunk is made available to the
proxy for new data.

The actual cache hints are send every second by a separate thread.
The contents of the hint is the the list of non-empty chunks in the
cache that are due to expire and have not already been sent x times
before, that is "needed self" or "pending" is not set and "hold" is
non-zero, sorted based on the timestamp with the oldest chunks first.

When a client receives the hint it will: 1) filter the list to remove
any chunks it already has, 2) add the filters list to the head of
the request list so that it request those chunks next, and 3) send the
filtered list back to the proxy.

The clients responses are handled in the same thread that handles the
rest of the incoming traffic from clients.

PHASE 2)

Be able to handle requests from from multiple clients without using
multicast.  As I see it there are three options:

1) Send all outgoing packets to all clients.  This will be the easiest
to implement and probably not all that inefficient.

2) Only send the clients what they ask for.  This has the problem that
a client may ask for a chunk that was in its cache but is not any more.
Thus the server has to rerequest the chunk from the boss server.  This
solution will save bandwidth from the client to the server but will
greatly increase bandwidth between the server and the boss server,
when the cache is not large enough to hold the entire disk image.

3) Have the client tell the server what it needs and let the server
figure out what to send it.  This solution is the most complicated
but will avoid the problems of the previous two solutions.

For an initial implementation I think the first solution is the best.

---

RANDOM NOTES, ignore for now:

This will involve keeping track of which client requested
what.  The main area this complicates is how to handle the merging of
requests.

The cache is in one of several states.  The state it is considered to
be in is the first of the following:
  1) Has chunks committed to disk and which all blocks have been sent
  2) Has chunks committed to disk
  3) Has chunks pending a commit to disk
  4) None of the above

